it's official the nanos are the most
popular fruit in the UK and we scoffed
almost 1 billion of them last year but
unlike apples or pears we import our
bananas from far-off places here in
Costa Rica this plantation is the size
of 324 football pitches the workers use
a pulley system to get themselves around
it's meant to transport the fruit but
catching a lift saves them from walking
modern bananas are sterile so each new
plant must be taken from an old cutting
this is pretty tough work as the plants
can grow several meters tall if the
workers didn't replant each year the
plantation would stop producing once the
fruit begins to emerge the plants must
be pruned the large purple flowers at
the base diverts energy that will
produce bigger tastier bananas so the
workers remove it the remaining bunches
the point of bags coated with
insecticides to protect them from being
eaten
to keep the insects at bay the crops are
also sprayed but not by an aeroplane
they use a high-tech shopper which is
more agile it's controlled by satellite
technology which stops local workers
being covered with pesticides in their
own homes these bananas have a radius of
three centimeters and although they're
not ripe yet now is the perfect time to
collect them when the fruit has reached
this ideal size these guys have the job
of preparing them for the packing plant
they're protective bags are removed and
foam inserts are placed between the
bunches if the fruit have even the
tiniest bruises UK customers leave them
on the shelf so they're protected right
from the start enormous bunches are
loaded onto the pulley system and join a
long traffic jam of other fruit heading
for the processing plant
now you need an enormous trolley to buy
a bunch of sixty bananas with your
weekly shopping so now they're separated
into smaller ones before being sent for
a bath tough EU laws legislate for
bananas size shape and even their curve
so the workers must be sure there are no
slip-ups with any fruit that aren't up
to scratch any that fail are thrown onto
the waste conveyor but they aren't
discarded they'll be used to feed local
livestock or sent to be processed into
baby food the remaining bananas are then
sent off for another bath which kills
off any spiders who may be trying to
hitch a ride to a supermarket near you
the fruit is given its trademark
branding and boxes are built to store
them for their long journey across the
Atlantic
this plantation has produced over
270,000 boxes of bananas they're packed
up and sent by the lorry load to the
docks here they're put on board ships
and specially cooled containers for the
journey to Europe they won't be enjoying
any Sun on the deck though it's an 11
day journey and being in the Sun would
ripen them too early when they're
finally unloaded the bananas are still
green this means they can be stored
until the shops need them they're
stacked in sealed ripening rooms when
the stores need them these rooms will be
flooded with ethylene gas this gas
ripens the bananas at a regular
measurable pace which means the stools
know exactly when they are ready for the
shelves so from the exotic fields of the
Costa Rican plantation to the
supermarket trolley in the UK the Brits
are certainly bananas about Lebanon 'as